---
project: Discover the CONUMM cartography
image: ./images/clients-covers/conumm.png
link: https://www.carto.conumm.fr
gitlab: https://gitlab.com/multi-coop/datami-project/datami-clients/datami-hubs-conumm
topics: [ digital mediation ]
clients: [ CONUMM ]
uses: [ table, cards, map ]
---

The hub "France Connectée" of Pays de la Loire, CONUMM, has the mission of promoting, supporting and structuring the digital mediation offer. This also involves putting people or institutions in contact with each other who need the expertise of these sometimes unrecognized actors in the field.

CONUMM had to produce a map highlighting digital mediation spaces in the Pays de la Loire region. This mapping is intended to be an additional tool to publicize the actions of the structures, to encourage the pooling and sharing of professionalization tools.

The multi-cooperative has set up a Datami as a support for this mapping, thus providing better portability of visualizations and greater technical simplicity in the data update process.

**https://www.carto.conumm.fr**

---

## Project Information

On the different territories hosting a France Connected hub, mapping work aimed at identifying the actors of digital mediation is underway. In order to participate in this global dynamic, the CONUMM hub has also undertaken this process.

This cartographic work does not start from scratch and is based on the work carried out by the Departmental Council of Loire Atlantique, the Departmental Council of Mayenne, the Parcours Numériques approach. The objective is to compile and enrich the data sets in terms of digital mediation in the Pays de la Loire region.

This mapping is intended to be an additional tool to publicize the actions of the structures, to encourage the pooling and sharing of professionalization tools.

But this tool will also be a valuable aid for social workers who will be able, in one click, to view the resources that can be mobilized within its scope and thus more easily guide people who are in demand for support on computer courses, assistance with administrative procedures, a simple internet connection… Any resource aimed at helping people experiencing difficulties with digital technology. These are essential resources to fight against the isolation of people, to fight against any stigmatization that could be generated by digital exclusion. This tool will be a valuable aid for social workers who will be able, in one click, to view the resources that can be mobilized in their territories and thus more easily guide a public in difficulty with digital technology towards computer courses, access to an internet connection … Do not hesitate to report initiatives!

It is a tool at the service of digital mediation actors. You are therefore invited to contribute to its updating and operation, by accessing the online form to fill in your actions.

---

## For more info

- CONUMM website: https://conumm.fr/
